README.md, before:

# json-deepl-translate

Translate json files with deepl API

Usually multi-language projects developed with a javascript framework (Angular, Vue...) base their translations on json files with different nesting levels. This small project allows you to generate new files for other languages while keeping the same structure.

- Works with Python3

```shell
python json_translate /path/to/file/en_US.json --locale es --output es_ES.json --indent 4 --sleep 0.5
```
> See more options with `python json_translate --help`

## Supported languages

You can check the supported languages at this link: [DeepL Translate Text Request Parameters](https://www.deepl.com/docs-api/translate-text) (parameters `source_lang` and `target_lang`)

## Install
1. Create virtual environment

2. Install dependencies:
```shell
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Create an `.env` file with:
```
DEEPL_AUTH_KEY=your-key-here
```
> You can get a free deepl developer account in https://www.deepl.com/pro-checkout/account (Credit card needed)

If you wish to upgrade to a paid account, you will need to add the paid api endpoint in the `.env` file:
```
DEEPL_API_ENDPOINT=https://api.deepl.com/v2/translate
```

Other parameters can also be overwritten in the `.env` file:
```
SLEEP_BETWEEN_API_CALLS=0.01
INDENTATION_DEFAULT=2
ENCODING=utf-8
```

## Usage
1. Execute the command with the file path and the language you want to generate

```shell
python json_translate /home/user/my_project/locales/en_US.json --locale ES --output es_ES.json
```
> The script will create an `es_ES.json` file in the same folder as the source file.

### Optional parameters

```
-l, --locale    Language target to translate. Defaults to "en"
-o, --output    Output file name. Defaults to "<target_locale>.json"
-s, --sleep     Sleep time between API calls. Defaults to 0.01 (seconds)
-i, --indent    Output file indentation spaces. Defaults to 2
--skip          Keys to skip in the json file (they won't be translated)
```

### Example file
Translate the example file `/tests/data/en_US.json` to spanish:
```shell
python json_translate tests/data/en_US.json --locale ES --output es_ES.json --skip lorem ipsum
```

## API usage
You can check your API usage with
```shell
curl -H "Authorization: DeepL-Auth-Key YOUR-API-KEY-HERE" https://api-free.deepl.com/v2/usage
```

## Contributing
See the [contributing guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for detailed instructions on how to get started.

## License
This repository is available under **GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE v2.1** (LGPL). See [details](LICENSE.md).

Commit message:

feat: refactor translator and add --log and --encoding options

README.md, after:

# json-deepl-translate

Translate json files with deepl API

Usually multi-language projects developed with a javascript framework (Angular, Vue...) base their translations on json files with different nesting levels. This small project allows you to generate new files for other languages while keeping the same structure.

- Works with Python3

```shell
python json_translate /path/to/file/en_US.json --locale es --output es_ES.json --indent 4 --sleep 0.5
```
> See more options with `python json_translate --help`

## Supported languages

You can check the supported languages at this link: [DeepL Translate Text Request Parameters](https://www.deepl.com/docs-api/translate-text) (parameters `source_lang` and `target_lang`)

## Install
1. Create virtual environment

2. Install dependencies:
```shell
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Create an `.env` file with:
```
DEEPL_AUTH_KEY=your-key-here
```
> You can get a free deepl developer account in https://www.deepl.com/pro-checkout/account (Credit card needed)

If you wish to upgrade to a paid account, you will need to add the paid api endpoint in the `.env` file:
```
DEEPL_API_ENDPOINT=https://api.deepl.com/v2/translate
```

Other parameters can also be overwritten in the `.env` file:
```
SLEEP_BETWEEN_API_CALLS=0.01
INDENTATION_DEFAULT=2
ENCODING=utf-8
```

## Usage
1. Execute the command with the file path and the language you want to generate

```shell
python json_translate /home/user/my_project/locales/en_US.json --locale ES --output es_ES.json
```
> The script will create an `es_ES.json` file in the same folder as the source file.

### Optional parameters

```
-l, --locale    Target language to translate the file. Defaults to "en" (English)
-o, --output    Output file name. Defaults to "<target locale>.json" (ex: en.json)
-s, --sleep     Sleep time between API calls. Defaults to 0.01 (seconds)
-i, --indent    Output file indentation spaces. Defaults to 2
--encoding      Input & output file encoding. Defaults to UTF-8
--skip          Keys to skip in the json file (they won't be translated)
--log           Display translations as they are being translated
```
> Note that **sleep**, **indentation** and **encoding** can also be defined with variables in the `.env` file but they are overwritten with the values of the command.

### Example file
Translate the example file `/tests/data/en_US.json` to spanish:
```shell
python json_translate tests/data/en_US.json --locale ES --output es_ES.json --skip lorem ipsum --log
```

## API usage
You can check your API usage with
```shell
curl -H "Authorization: DeepL-Auth-Key YOUR-API-KEY-HERE" https://api-free.deepl.com/v2/usage
```

## Contributing
See the [contributing guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) for detailed instructions on how to get started.

## License
This repository is available under **GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE v2.1** (LGPL). See [details](LICENSE.md).
